Linear programming: problem solving model for optimal allocation of scarce resources, among number of competing activitues that encompasses:
	1. Shortest paths, maxflow, MST, matchinf, assginment, etc.
	2. Ax = b, 2-person zero-sum games, etc.

Maximize / Minimize an objective function

Why significant?
	1. Fast commercial solvers available
	2. Widely applicable problem solving model (Delta claims that LP saves $100 million per year)
	3. Key subroutine for integer programming solvers

Brewer's problem:
Small brewery produces ale and beer.
Production limited by scarce resources: corn (480 lbs), hops (160 oz), barley malt (1190 lbs).
Recipes for ale and beer require different proportions of resources.
Ale: 5 pounds corn, 4 ounces hops, 35 pounds malt ($13 profit per barrel)
Beer: 15 pounds corn, 4 ounces hops, 20 pounds malt ($23 profit per barrel)
Brewer's problem: choose product mix to maximize profits

Linear programming formulation of Brewer's problem:
Let A be the number of barrels of ale
Let B be the number of barrels of beer

Maximize profits: 13A + 23B
subject to constraints:
5A + 15B <= 480		corn
4A + 4B <= 160		hops
35A + 20B <= 1190	malt
A, B >= 0

Inequalities define halfplanes, feasible region is a convex polygon.
Optimal solution occurs at an extreme point

Converting Brewer's problem to Standard form:
Add variable Z and equation corresponding to objective function
Add slack variable to convert each inequality to an equality
Now a 6-dimensional problem

Inequalities define halfspaces, feasible region is a convex polyhedron
A set is convex if for any two points a and b in the set, so is (a + b) / 2
An extreme point of a set is a point in the set that can't be written as (a + b) / 2, where a and b are two distinct points in the set
Warning: don't always trust intution in higher dimensions

Extreme points property: if there exists an optimal solution to P, then there exists one that is an extreme point
- number of extreme points to consider is finite
- but number of extreme points can be exponential
Greedy property: extreme point optimal iff no better adjacent extreme point. Local optima are global optima (follows because objective function is linear and feasible region is convex).